and here we're going to talk about basic
strategy and that would be based on
similarity of users and then predicting
the rating of an object by active user
using the ratings of similar users to
this active user this is called a memory
based approach because it's a little bit
similar to storing all the user
information and when we are considering
a particular user we're going to try to
kind of retrieve the relevant users or
the similar users to this user case and
then try to use that use the information
about those users to predict the
preference of this user so here's the
general idea and we use some notations
here so X sub I J denotes the rating of
object o J PI user UI and n sub I is
average rating of all objects by this
user so this ni is needed because we
would like to normalize the ratings of
objects by this user so how do you do
normalization well we're going to just
subtract the average rating from all the
ratings now this is to normalize these
ratings so that the ratings from
different users would be comparable
because some users might be more
generous and they can give high ratings
but some others might be more critical
so their ratings cannot be directly
compared with each other or aggregate
them together so we need to do this
normalization now the prediction of the
rating on item by
another user or active user use of a
here can be based on the average ratings
of similar users so the user use of a is
the user that we are interested in
recommending items to and we now are
used to the in recommending this o
subject so we are interesting knowing
how likely this user will like this
object now how do we know that well the
idea here is to look at the weather
similar users to this user have liked
this object so mathematically this is to
say well the predicted the rating of
this user on this object user a on
object o J is basically combination of
the normalized the ratings of different
users and in fact here we are taking a
sum over all the users but not all users
contribute equally to the average and
this is controlled by the weights so
this weight controls the inference of
user on the prediction and of course
naturally this way that should be
related to the similarity between UA and
this particular user UI the more similar
they are then the more contribution
would like use a UI to make in
predicting the preference of UA so the
formula is extremely simple you can see
it's a sum over all the possible users
and inside the sum we have their ratings
rather than normalize ratings as I just
explained the ratings need to be
normalized in order to be comfortable
with each other and then these ratings
are weighted by their similarity so you
can imagine W of a and I is just a
similarity of user a and
user I now what's K here
well KT is simply normalized it's just
it's just one over the sum of all the
weights of all the users and so this
means basically if you consider the
weight here together with the K and we
have coefficients or weights that would
sum to one for all the users and it's
just a normalization strategy so that
you get this predicted rating in the
same range and these ratings that we use
to make the prediction right so this is
basically the main idea of memory based
approaches for collaborative filtering
once we make this prediction we also
would like to map back through the
rating that the user the user would
actually make and this is to further add
the mean rating or average rating of
this user use of a to the predicted
value this would recover a meaningful
rating for this user so if this user is
generous then the average it would be
somewhat high and when we add that the
rating will be adjusted to a relatively
high rate
now when you recommend item to a user
this actually doesn't really matter
because you are interesting basically
the normalized rating that's more
meaningful but when they evaluate these
collaborative filtering approaches they
typically assume the actual ratings of
the user on these objects to be unknown
and then you do the prediction and then
you compare the predictor ratings with
their actual ratings so they you do have
access to their actual ratings but then
you
pretend you don't know and then you
compare your systems predictions with
the actual ratings in that case
obviously the system's prediction would
have to be adjusted to match the actual
ratings of the user and this is what's
happening here basically okay so this is
the memory based approach now of course
if you look at the formula if you want
to write the program to implement it you
still face the problem of determining
what is this W function right once you
know the W function then the formula is
very easy to implement so indeed there
are many different ways to compute this
function for this weight W and specific
approach is generally differ in how this
is computed so here are some
possibilities and you can imagine there
are many other possibilities one popular
approaches we use the Pearson
correlation coefficient this would be a
sum over common rated items and the
formula is standard a Pearson
correlation coefficient formula as shown
here so this basically measures whether
the two users can do or give higher
ratings to similar items or lower
ratings to similar items another measure
is the cosine measure and this is
retreat the rating vectors as vectors in
the vector space and then we're going to
measure the angle and compute the cosine
of the angle of the two vectors and this
measure has been using the vector space
model for retrieval as well so as you
can imagine there are too many different
ways of doing that in all these cases
note that the user similarity is based
on their preferences on items and we did
not actually use any content information
of these items it didn't matter
you know what these items are they can
be movies they can be books they can be
products they can be
documents we just didn't care about the
content and so this allows such an
approach to be applied through a wide
range of problems now in some new
approaches of course we would like to
use more information about the user
clearly we know more about the user not
just these preferences on these items so
in the actual filtering system using
collaborative filtering we could also
combine that with content-based
filtering we could use more contacts of
information and those are interesting
approaches that people are still
studying and there are new approaches in
proposed but this memory based approach
it has been shown to work reasonably
well and it's easy to implement and in
practical applications this could be a
starting point to see if the spirity
works well for your application so there
are some obvious ways to also improve
this approach and mainly we would like
to improve the use of similarity measure
and there are some practical issues with
use here as well so for example there
will be a lot of missing values what do
you do with them you can set them to
default values or the average ratings of
the user and that would be a simple
solution but there are advanced
approaches that can actually try to
predict those missing values and then
use the predicted values to improve the
similarity so in fact the memory based
approach you can predict those those
missing values right so you can imagine
you have a iterative approach where you
first do some premium or addiction and
then you can use the predictor values to
further improve the severity function so
this is a purist way to solve the
problem and the strategy obviously would
affect the performance of clarity
just like any other heuristic to improve
these similarity functions another idea
which is actually very similar to the
idea of IDF that we have seen in tax
research is called inverse user
frequency or iuf now here the idea is to
look at the where the true uses share
similar ratings if the item is a popular
item that has been viewed by many people
and singing these two people interested
in this item may not be so interesting
but if it's a rare item it has not been
viewed by many users but these two users
view this item and they give similar
ratings and that says more about their
similarity right so it's kind of to
emphasize more on similarity on items
that are not viewed by many users
you